docs: add VPN DA reference architecture (#963)
terraform-ibm-modules/terraform-ibm-landing-zone: reference-architectures/deploy-arch-ibm-slz-vpn.md

---

copyright:
  years: 2025
lastupdated: "2025-03-05"

keywords:

subcollection: deployable-reference-architectures

authors:
  - name: "Andrej Kocbek"

# The release that the reference architecture describes
version: 2.1.3

# Whether the reference architecture is published to Cloud Docs production.
# When set to false, the file is available only in staging. Default is false.
production: false

# Use if the reference architecture has deployable code.
# Value is the URL to land the user in the IBM Cloud catalog details page
# for the deployable architecture.
# See https://test.cloud.ibm.com/docs/get-coding?topic=get-coding-deploy-button
deployment-url: https://cloud.ibm.com/catalog/7a4d68b4-cf8b-40cd-a3d1-f49aff526eb3/architecture/deploy-arch-ibm-client-to-site-vpn-1b824983-263f-4191-bfcd-c1d1b2220aa3-global

docs: https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/secure-infrastructure-vpc?topic=secure-infrastructure-vpc-connect-landingzone-client-vpn

> image_source: https://github.com/terraform-ibm-modules/terraform-ibm-client-to-site-vpn/blob/main/reference-architectures/c2s-basic.drawio.svg

Author: diagram is inside VPN repo under `reference-architectures`. Will automation will be able to pick it up? https://github.com/terraform-ibm-modules/terraform-ibm-client-to-site-vpn/blob/main/reference-architectures/c2s-basic.drawio.svg

related_links:
  - title: "VPC landing zone - Standard variation"
    url: "https://cloud.ibm.com/docs/deployable-reference-architectures?topic=deployable-reference-architectures-vsi-ra"

>     description: "A deployable architecture that is based on the IBM Cloud for Financial Services reference and that provides virtual servers in a secure VPC for your workloads."

Reviewer: ```suggestion
    description: "A deployable architecture that is based on the IBM Cloud for Financial Services Framework reference and that provides virtual servers in a secure VPC for your workloads."
```

I believe you have to use Framework as part of the FS cloud name. It came up in SCC quite a bit.

use-case: Cybersecurity
industry: Banking,FinancialSector
compliance: FedRAMP

content-type: reference-architecture

---

{{site.data.keyword.attribute-definition-list}}

> # Cloud automation for Client to Site VPN

Reviewer: ```suggestion
# Cloud automation for Client-to-Site VPN
```

{: #vpn-ra}
{: toc-content-type="reference-architecture"}
{: toc-industry="Banking,FinancialSector"}
{: toc-use-case="Cybersecurity"}
{: toc-compliance="FedRAMP"}
{: toc-version="2.1.0"}

> This deployable architecture pattern configures client-to-site VPN secure and encrypted server connectivity within an existing management VPC using only a few required inputs. Once deployed, you can install an OpenVPN client application on the devices you wish to use for VPN access, and import a profile from the VPN server. The configuration also allows you to specify a list of users who will have access to the private network, with access control managed by IBM Cloud IAM.

Reviewer: ```suggestion
This deployable architecture pattern configures client-to-site VPN secure and encrypted server connectivity within an existing management VPC using only a few required inputs. After it's been deployed, you can install an OpenVPN client application on the devices that you wish to use for VPN access, and import a profile from the VPN server. The configuration also allows you to specify a list of users that can have access to the private network, with access control managed by IBM Cloud Identity and Access Management.
```

## Architecture diagram
{: #ra-vpn-ext-architecture-diagram}

![Architecture diagram for adding client-to-site VPN to a landing zone deployable architecture](c2s-basic.drawio.svg "Architecture diagram for adding client-to-site VPN to a landing zone deployable architecture"){: caption="Figure 1. client-to-site VPN on existing landing zone" caption-side="bottom"}{: external download="c2s-basic.drawio.svg"}

## Design requirements
{: #ra-vpn-ext-design-requirements}

![Design requirements for VPN on management VPC landing zone](heat-map-deploy-arch-slz-vpn "Design requirements"){: caption="Figure 2. Scope of the design requirements" caption-side="bottom"}

> <!--

Reviewer: We should probably remove notes being as this is a public repo?

---
copyright:
  years: 2025

> lastupdated: "2025-03-05"

Reviewer 2: Date should be updated to latest.

keywords:

subcollection: deployable-reference-architectures

authors:
  - name: "Andrej Kocbek"

# The release that the reference architecture describes

> version: 2.1.3

Reviewer 2: Verify and update the release.

# Whether the reference architecture is published to Cloud Docs production.
# When set to false, the file is available only in staging. Default is false.

> production: false

Reviewer 2: Can this be changed to true to have this file in production?

# Use if the reference architecture has deployable code.
# Value is the URL to land the user in the IBM Cloud catalog details page
# for the deployable architecture.

> # See https://test.cloud.ibm.com/docs/get-coding?topic=get-coding-deploy-button

Reviewer 2: Reference of test.cloud should be removed.
